All right. Now we're gonna talk about
the credit card checkout.
We're gonna be using Stripe to actually charge credit cards.
Um, and then we're gonna be writing some custom mutations
on our back end to actually process those things cause
the whole Stripe checkout is sort of a two-step process.
First, you capture the user's credit card information
and any other information you need on the client,
you send that to Stripe,
Stripe comes back with what's called a token.
Um, that's sort of like,
good for one credit card charge
worth of however much you want.
Um, and then you throw that token back to your server side
um, and then actually go through
with processing the transaction.
The reason why they do that is cause you never wanna send
credit card data to your actual server,
because there's a whole lot of compliance
that needs to happen if you're actually handling
credit card numbers on your server.
And with the way Stripe does it,
you don't have to worry about that
cause it's only ever using tokens.
So you need to go to stripe.com and sign up for an account.
Um, and then when you're signed in,
you wanna make sure that you are in test.
I think by default they will put you in the test mode here.
I've just signed up for a completely separate account
called Wes Bos Tutorials
and I use this for all of my teaching.
Um, then what you wanna do is go to developers API keys
and we're going to make,
need to make an environmental variable that lives in
our frontend.
So far we only have a .ENV file for our
backend,
but we don't have .ENV file for our front end.
So I'm gonna show you how to do that.
Um, so next JS has an example right here.
You basically have to add a .ENV.local file
um, and then if you want to expose it to the browser,
you have to prefix it with NEXT_PUBLIC.
Gatsby does the same thing. Gatsby has to be gatsby_
So you explicitly expose
Environment Variables to the browser.
Because, otherwise if you have um,
private keys and things like that,
that shouldn't be there then they would be.
So we wanna go here, just go to the very root
of your next JS frontend folder
and .env
and it's .env.local.
Um, and then in here it says,
NEXT_
PUBLIC_
STRIPE
_KEY,
and that will be equal to whatever's in here.
Just go ahead and copy it and pop some quotes around it.
And then we wanna make sure that
this key is being piped into our frontend.
So just go somewhere like your Nav.js
and try to put it somewhere in your NAV.
I'm just gonna say process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY.
And we'll go to our frontend here.
And I don't think it will show up by default.
No, I think we probably have to restart the frontend.
Let's try that.
There we go.
There is, there's the key that we need.
Next, what we need to do is to create a checkout component
that we will be able to use Stripe end.
So go ahead and create a new file
call it Checkout.js.
And we'll make our custom component.
So function checkout.
And then from that, well return.
We'll call it checkout form styles.
We'll code those ourselves in just a sec
um, and then just put a paragraph tag in there
that says, "hey".
Now go above it and make those checkout form styles
real quick.
So checkout form styles
is equal to style.form tag.
The reason why we're not using our existing form here
is because
we're actually not going to be handling any inputs
from the user.
Um, we're going to be using Stripe Elements
and Stripe Elements handles all the inputs for us.
Which is pretty cool.
So we'll go in here and say,
box-shadow:
1px
2px 2px
rgba(0,0,0,0.04).
Border: 1px
solid rgba (0,0, 0, 0.06)
just in very faint lines.
Border-radius:
5px.
Padding:
1rem.
Display
grid
and grid-gap:
1rem.
Okay.
Um, now we need to go into our cart,
I can take this out we don't need that.
We don't need the page.
We don't need that and that.
I'll go into our Cart.js
and go all the way to the bottom AF
right underneath you where you formatted money
in the footer.
And let's just put our checkout component in there.
And we'll import it.
It doesn't look like it's importing itself.
Oh, we didn't export it.
Export
checkout.
Let's try it now.
Here we go.
Here it is.
Open up our cart and there we go.
There's our actual checkout form showing up.
Next we need to
start working on loading in the Stripe Elements.
So again, Stripe elements is a package that Stripe offers
that allow you to embed credit card fields
into your application
so that you don't actually have to fuss with
um, touching any credit card numbers yourself.
It actually happens all on Stripes form which is great.
So we will first load Stripe into the page
and the way that you can do that
is, is cons Stripelib is equal to loadStripe.
And then you gotta give it your, your key.
And our key was, what was it?
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY.
So process.env.
NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_KEY
and then loadStripe
is a method that is exported from Stripe itself.
Doesn't look like it's working.
So let's try it ourselves.
Import
loadStripe
from @Stripe4/,
there's two libraries that Stripe has, Stripe.js.
That's their base.
Um, and then react Stripe.js is just their
react adaptation of their input.
So this one is Stripe-js.
That's what we need here.
Next we need to do is wrap our component in their provider.
Remember we talked about providers, we have an
ApolloProvider that provides information about Apollo.
We have our CART provider as reached above the cart is open.
Now we're gonna have a Stripe Elements provider.
That's gonna provide information about that.
So we just wrap it in an elements tag
and hopefully we can import that.
Yeah. We import elements from
@stripe/react-Stripe-js
and then we'll wrap our entire component in that.
And then Stripe Elements actually needs
access to the stripeLib value right here.
Notice how I've required it outside of the component.
That's so that we're not accidentally
requiring it once every single time that, that thing loads.
So let's say Stripe is equal to stripeLib.
And we can go
to our
page here
and let's just open up the dev tools.
See if there's any, any errors.
Sometimes if you do something wrong,
Stripe will yell at you
and it looks like we're doing okay so far.
So the next thing that we wanna do
is actually start to embed
um, the credit card form element.
And that is simply just a thing called Card Element.
So we say Card Element
and import that again.
We're going to import that directly from Stripe Elements.
Get outta here!
I can't see where my imports are. There we go.
They're an import,
Yeah. There we go.
Card Element.
And,(laughs)
look at that.
We'll get rid of this, "hey"
and with that much work,
we are already seeing a mock-up
of
the, there we go,
the card number, our expiry date,
and
that, which is pretty cool.
Um, there is an issue with these things going side by side.
That's not what I wanted here.
Um, our footer
is a grid.
Let's see, where is that style coming from?
Cause we need to write a little bit more.
Here we go.
Footer.
Let's change these ourselves.
It's in cart styles.
Um, the footer is grid-template-columns auto auto.
I don't believe that this actually needs to be grid at all.
So let's take those off and there we go.
Now we've got the credit card input here
and the month, the year CVC automatically showing up.
Finally, we need to hook up a button that will submit it.
Um, so we'll go back to our checkout here
and we'll
give ourselves
a sick button.
So this is a button I've given you in the styles folder.
So I'll try to import that.
Now we'll go up here.
Import
sick
button
from
styles
sick button.
Here we go.
And then go down to our sick button.
Closed it on me.
Come on now!
Here we go.
And we'll say, check out now.
That gives us our nice little
button that's showing up.
So
the last thing we wanna do is
that when somebody submits this form
we need to do a whole lot of steps
of going to Stripe, getting our token,
calculating how much the total thing will be
all of that good stuff.
So what we'll do is we'll take that our form
and say on submit
is
equal to we'll call it, handle
submit.
I'll go right inside it.
We're still inside the checkout form and make
a function here called handle submit
that has event.
And we'll just event.preventDefault
and console.log.
We gotta do some work.
So
open up our dev tools.
Check out now.
Here we go.
We gotta do some work.
Okay. So that's the very basics of the, the groundwork.
Nothing works yet, but we have the sort of
the base of it.
Um, in the next couple of videos we're going to get into
um,
talking to Stripe as well as talking to our custom back end
so that we can create our orders.